in this clip we're going to talk about
the proper service procedure to replace
your engine's timing belt and water pump
in this step we're going to talk about
the proper service procedure for removal
of the actual water pump from the engine
down inside here is where the water pump
is located the water pump is actually
this is the pulley for the water pump
and it's located all the way around here
and it has five mounting bolts that hold
it on now only four of them are still in
there through this hole is where one of
the mounting bolts for the engine
bracket went we already got that one
taken care of when you take this water
pump off on there will be some coolant
that comes out just being that the
engine block still has some in it that
didn't drain out through the radiator
drain cop
so you're going to place a bucket
underneath that to keep your floor clean
be it as environmentally friendly as
possible take a ten millimeter socket
with a swivel that really helps out with
getting into those tight places and a
small quarter inch ratchet it's going to
start on the first bolt you see there's
no particular pattern when taking it off
however when tightening it down you are
going to want to use a star pattern and
I'll show you that here in a moment
what we're gonna do to catch as much of
that coolant that's going to drain out
as possible is just take and back off
all the bolts a couple turns what
that'll do is let the water pump come
free from the engine a little bit and
that'll give it a crack
so that coolant can drain out from the
motor all right now before you break
this water pump loose like I said make
sure you have your drain pan or bucket
beneath it once we have all the bolts
broken free a couple turns I'm going to
take a rubber mallet and thump this
water pump to break loose the gasket
connection between the pump and the
block of the engine that will allow our
coolant to drain out
alright once you've made sure you've
gotten them as much coolant out of the
engine as you can go ahead and spin out
your water pump bolts
and the last one right there and I
should be able to just remove your pump
just like so that is the proper service
procedure for draining the coolant from
the block of the engine and removing the
water pump itself